Here it means that the valve opening is going to see how fast the deviation is happening.
See rate of deviation.
That means how fast the deviation is happening.
So it is predictive in nature.
On the basis of this prediction, this valve will continue to open more than what the P action
would have done.
It is anticipating a big drop in level.
The outcome of this derivative action is that the stability point with or without offset
is achieved quickly.
So we can also think it like this.
You see here, let us go back to this particular example.
Now I am going back to 200 liters.
And somebody has opened 300 liters.
The control system is seeing that, oh, the level has started falling.
The control system measuring that is looking at the rate of fall of the level.